---
title: "Setup Node-O"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: cube
---

## The Process:

### Setup pinode-0 (Master node):
1. Boot master node (pinode-0) with WiFi dongle, an HDMI cable,  an ethernet cable, keyboard and mouse plugged in.
   1. Change the password of the master node
       1. Type passwd into the terminal
       2. By default, the current password = raspberry 
       3. Enter the new password twice (write that down just in case)
2. Expanding the raspberry pi file system
   1. Type `sudo raspi-config` into the terminal
   2. Navigate to Expand File System and click **Enter**
   3. After selecting the expanded file system option, it should return an **OK**
   4. The System may ask to be rebooted
3. Set up the keyboard, time configuration, and wifi
   1. Go to Menu -> Preferences -> Raspberry Pi Configuration-> Localisation
   2. Set the appropriate Locale, Timezone and the Keyboard and then click **OK**
   3. Reboot
   4. Connect to Wifi - SDSC
4. Configure wlan0
   1. Use `ssh-keygen` to generate the RSA key pair
      1. Press **ENTER** for “Enter the file in which to save the key”
      2. Press **ENTER** for the “Enter passphrase"
          *  _it will be empty because we do not want to establish a password_ 
5. Clone this repo to home directory
   1. Copy the github address to clone that repository from [https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide](https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide)
   2. Type `git clone https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide.git`  into the terminal.
   3. Change into the sandbox-cluster-guide folder:  `cd sandbox-cluster-guide`
   4. Changes the branch to the appropriate version: `git checkout beta-workshop`
   5. Change into the config folder: `cd config`
6.Deploy configuration (./deploy.sh <node number>)
   1. Call the deploy script from the config directory. It takes a parameter which is a number that represents which node this is. Use the following command in the terminal:  `./deploy.sh 0` This command may take a few minutes to finish.
      1. After the script is complete, it is fine if you see “sudo: unable to resolve host raspberrypi” in the output. As long as the script completed, you can continue with the instructions.
   2. Verify that the hostname is set:
      1. Type `more/etc/hosts` into the terminal.  You should see an ip address similar to **127.0.0.1** on the left side and the name of the node on the right across from the ip address should be pinode-0. Check to make sure that it is set accordingly
7. Reboot
8. Restore the iptables rule-set
   1. Type `sudo iptables-restore < /etc/network/iptables` into the terminal. After this command is completed, it should return to a new line.
