---
title: "All Other Nodes"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: cubes
---

## The Process:

### All other nodes:

**_The following instructions will be repeated for the remaining raspberry pi nodes. Note: All of the following commands will still be run from pinode-0, or the master node. There is no need to unplug and plug the keyboard and mouse into each new node._**
{: .text-red}

1. Boot another raspberry pi with an ethernet cable plugged in. Give it a minute or two before continuing with the instructions.
2. Check what the IP address of the new node is
   1. Since the master node is running a DCHP server, you can check the IP address that the server assigned to the new node. Type `arp -a` into the terminal. Look for the address that has a mac address and has not previously been used by another node.
   2.Check that the IP address is accessible from pinode-0 by pinging it.
      1. Type `sudo ping -c 4 <ip address>` into the terminal.
      2. Wait until all 4 packets have been sent. If the address is accessible, it will return with a statement that all packets were sent successfully. If the packets were not sent successfully and were lost, then that is probably not the correct address. Restart step 2.
3. Connecting to the new node
   1. After you have found the correct IP address, type `ssh <ip address>` into the terminal to connect to it.
      1. Enter **yes** into the prompt about adding the key from this node into memory.
      2. You will be prompted for the default password of the node that you are accessing. Enter the default raspberry pi password. **raspberry**
4. Expanding the raspberry pi file system
   1. Type `sudo raspi-config` into the terminal.
   2. Navigate to Expand File System and click **ENTER**.
   3. After selecting the expand file system option, it should return an **OK**.
   4. System may ask to be rebooted.
5. Clone the github repo to home directory
   1. After the raspberry pi has been rebooted, connect back to the node using `ssh <ip address>` and using the default raspberry pi password.
   2. Copy the github address to clone that repository from [https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide](https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide)
   3. Type `git clone https://github.com/sdsc/sandbox-cluster-guide.git` into the terminal.
   4. Change into the sandbox-cluster-guide folder: `cd sandbox-cluster-guide`
   5. Changes the branch to the appropriate version: `git checkout beta-workshop`
   6. Change into the config folder: `cd config`  
6. Deploy configuration (./deploy.sh <node number>)
   1. Call the deploy script from the config directory. It takes a parameter, #, which is a number that represents which node this is. Use the following command in the terminal:  `./deploy.sh #` This command may take a few minutes to finish.
      1. After the script is complete, it is fine if you see “_sudo: unable to resolve host raspberrypi_” in the output. As long as the script completed, you can continue with the instructions.
   2. Verify that the hostname is set:
      1. Type `more /etc/hosts` into the terminal.  You should see an ip address similar to 172.x.x.x on the left side and the name of the node on the right across from the ip address should be the pinode-# where # is the same as the number that you entered for the deploy script section. Check to make sure that it is set accordingly.
7. Reboot
8. Verify that the node was set up correctly
   1. After the node has been fully rebooted, type `ssh pinode-#` into the terminal. The “#” should be the same as the number that you entered for the deploy script section. If the node was set up successfully, you should be able to access the node without having the enter any password. 
      * Note: On the first connect, you might have to enter `yes` when prompted to adding the key from this node into memory.

